src/guide/formats.md, before:

# Formats and Templates

Story Synth currently has six different game formats, each with their own template you can use. Here’s an overview of each format, its influences, and a link to the template spreadsheet.

## Shuffled

[Shuffled Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N5eeyKTVWo5QeGcUV_zYtwtR0DikJCcvcj6w69UkC1w/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is inspired by Alex Robert’s game _For the Queen_ ([buy](https://www.evilhat.com/home/for-the-queen/)) ([SRD](https://forthequeengame.com/srd)).

Games following this format have:

* A series of instructions, spread over short cards that appear in a fixed order
* A number of storytelling prompts that are shuffled in order
* A final card that brings the game to a close, which is always the last card
* An [X-Card](http://tinyurl.com/x-card-rpg) for safety

Unlike _For the Queen_, there are no Queen cards to choose from and the final card is always last, rather than shuffled into the deck.

The default template has just one shuffled deck of prompts but Story Synth can handle multiple decks. Each deck (except the instructions) will be internally shuffled but the decks will be served in order (i.e. all of deck one, followed by all of deck two). This enables you to play games in the style of Avery Alder’s _The Quiet Year_ ([buy](https://buriedwithoutceremony.com/the-quiet-year)). Check out the [Sequential Shuffled Decks template](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N2N8URSswhmxLalPOkzi5d4kdeFiGrsobEmM_ojk0ow/edit?usp=sharing) which shows off the multipack capabilities of the Shuffled format.

The broader format of ordered instructions followed by random prompts lends itself to a wide variety of games that stray far from _For the Queen_.

## Timed

[Timed Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yq2AKwaYL1uZrCnEfwgSpC0SPkQAZqnCdjNxH_pm018/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is inspired by Jason Morningstar’s game _Find/Fix/Finish_ ([buy](https://www.patreon.com/posts/find-fix-finish-35788333)).

This game has a shared timer and private prompts are sent to players at specific times. Players can pause, unpause, and restart the game at any point.

Unlike _Find/Fix/Finish_, there aren’t any decision points where a player can choose from different options and which result in different content later. There also isn’t space for links to reference material, though you could include them in the prompts.

## Secrets

[Secrets Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JwMF02DSxNKtjHp6u-wyznSs-iEG_3DpOobgc17I16o/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is similar to the Timed format but prompts are tied to each turn instead of a timer and turns are manually advanced.

In each turn, each player will receive one public prompt (seen by all) and one private prompt (seen only by them).

## Monster

[Monster Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NgNHy7Qe1R8KhGR2cOmJwL2aOl2tocBemW2HIAKjrvI/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is inspired by Randy Lubin’s game _Dawn of the Monster Invasion_ ([play online](http://monster.diegeticgames.com/)).

This format has:

* A series of ordered instructions at the beginning of the game
* A series of rounds, with each round containing several prompts to choose from
* The prompts are fixed to the specific rounds (i.e. not random) and players will face the same options each playthrough

## Slot Machine

[Slot Machine Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1t5LRUQG9DzMJ3kd8E9DZV7_EbE8J5-Gqhz7TWQ4Y-uU/edit?usp=sharing)

This format has:

* A series of ordered instructions at the beginning of the game
* A series of cards that each randomly draw elements from a number of categories (e.g. one from category A, one from category b, one from category c)
* There's no limit to the number of cards or categories

This format might be useful for those who want to generate random encounters, random locations, random characters, or a any other random prompts that are created from several categories.

## Phases

[Phases Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HataDfV2lrA4hfzmLgDjXH09dEMLQV6OT10tVH9G52A/edit?usp=sharing)

This format takes place over rounds, where each round has a series of phases that happen in order. For each phase, a prompt is drawn from the corresponding phase deck.

A game about travel might use phases: new mode of transit, trouble on the road, new location, and trouble in location. In each round, each phase will be visited once in sequence and a random, relevant prompt will be show.

Commit message:

added generator, press, plus other extra details

src/guide/formats.md, after:

# Formats and Templates

Story Synth currently has six different game formats, each with their own template you can use. Here’s an overview of each format, its influences, and a link to the template spreadsheet.

## Shuffled

[Shuffled Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N5eeyKTVWo5QeGcUV_zYtwtR0DikJCcvcj6w69UkC1w/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is inspired by Alex Robert’s game _For the Queen_ ([buy](https://www.evilhat.com/home/for-the-queen/)) ([SRD](https://forthequeengame.com/srd)).

Games following this format have:

- A series of instructions, spread over short cards that appear in a fixed order
- A number of storytelling prompts that are shuffled in order
- A final card that brings the game to a close, which is always the last card
- An [X-Card](http://tinyurl.com/x-card-rpg) for safety

Unlike _For the Queen_, there are no Queen cards to choose from and the final card is always last, rather than shuffled into the deck.

The default template has just one shuffled deck of prompts but Story Synth can handle multiple decks. Each deck (except the instructions) will be internally shuffled but the decks will be served in order (i.e. all of deck one, followed by all of deck two). This enables you to play games in the style of Avery Alder’s _The Quiet Year_ ([buy](https://buriedwithoutceremony.com/the-quiet-year)). Check out the [Sequential Shuffled Decks template](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N2N8URSswhmxLalPOkzi5d4kdeFiGrsobEmM_ojk0ow/edit?usp=sharing) which shows off the multipack capabilities of the Shuffled format.

The broader format of ordered instructions followed by random prompts lends itself to a wide variety of games that stray far from _For the Queen_.

## Timed

[Timed Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yq2AKwaYL1uZrCnEfwgSpC0SPkQAZqnCdjNxH_pm018/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is inspired by Jason Morningstar’s game _Find/Fix/Finish_ ([buy](https://www.patreon.com/posts/find-fix-finish-35788333)).

This game has a shared timer and private prompts are sent to players at specific times. Players can pause, unpause, and restart the game at any point.

Unlike _Find/Fix/Finish_, there aren’t any decision points where a player can choose from different options and which result in different content later. There also isn’t space for links to reference material, though you could include them in the prompts.

## Secrets

[Secrets Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JwMF02DSxNKtjHp6u-wyznSs-iEG_3DpOobgc17I16o/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is similar to the Timed format but prompts are tied to each turn instead of a timer and turns are manually advanced.

In each turn, each player will receive one public prompt (seen by all) and one private prompt (seen only by them).

## Monster

[Monster Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NgNHy7Qe1R8KhGR2cOmJwL2aOl2tocBemW2HIAKjrvI/edit?usp=sharing)

This format is inspired by Randy Lubin’s game _Dawn of the Monster Invasion_ ([play online](http://monster.diegeticgames.com/)).

This format has:

- A series of ordered instructions at the beginning of the game
- A series of rounds, with each round containing several prompts to choose from
- The prompts are fixed to the specific rounds (i.e. not random) and players will face the same options each playthrough

## Slot Machine

[Slot Machine Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1t5LRUQG9DzMJ3kd8E9DZV7_EbE8J5-Gqhz7TWQ4Y-uU/edit?usp=sharing)

This format has:

- A series of ordered instructions at the beginning of the game
- A series of cards that each randomly draw elements from a number of categories (e.g. one from category A, one from category b, one from category c)
- There's no limit to the number of cards or categories

This format might be useful for those who want to generate random encounters, random locations, random characters, or a any other random prompts that are created from several categories.

## Phases

[Phases Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HataDfV2lrA4hfzmLgDjXH09dEMLQV6OT10tVH9G52A/edit?usp=sharing)

This format takes place over rounds, where each round has a series of phases that happen in order. For each phase, a prompt is drawn from the corresponding phase deck.

A game about travel might use phases: new mode of transit, trouble on the road, new location, and trouble in location. In each round, each phase will be visited once in sequence and a random, relevant prompt will be show.

## Generator

[Generator Template Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1F0g3rVHxRA7O0rRMIQSsLCepJStxBO6pa7QJUNJb3K0/edit?usp=sharing)

[Generator Demo](https://storysynth.org/Generator/1F0g3rVHxRA7O0rRMIQSsLCepJStxBO6pa7QJUNJb3K0/)

This format shows randomly selected options from different categories over a customized layout of rows and columns. Players can regenerate the entire group of selections or individual categories.

This format is great for generating multipart scenarios, adventures, or locations.

Key options:

- upperText – custom text that appears above the generator
- lowerText - custom text that appears below the generator
- generatorRowLayout - how you specify the layout of the generator; input how many columns per row with each row separated by a comma. You can use 1, 2, 3, 4, or 6 columns per row. (e.g. "2,1,4,3").
- styleTemplate – use this to specify an existing style template. Options: cyberpunk, vaporwave, fantasy, dark, light.
- showSummary – let players switch from grid view to the concise Summary View
- showFullLists – let players switch from grid view to Full List View, which shows all possible options per category
